Businesses care about recommendation systems because they are
often central to how the business drives revenue.
There are often four goals of recommenders that can help drive revenue.
The first of these is the most obvious,
and that is relevance.
We want to make recommendations that are relevant to users.
Consumers are more likely to engage with and use items that are relevant.
Therefore, this is key.
The second goal is novelty.
While we want to recommend items that are relevant,
it is ideal if a recommended item is
not something that the user has been exposed to already.
This means finding novel items for a particular user.
The third goal is serendipity.
Often this is confused with novelty.
Recommendations that are serendipitous are truly surprising to a user.
If a user listens to classic rock music,
a novel recommendation is a new classic rock song that the user has not heard of before.
However, a serendipitous recommendation is one that might come
from a different genre that the user is surprised that they like.
This goal is often much more difficult to implement and involves
a mix of collaborative filtering and content-based methods to implement well.
The final goal is to increase recommendation diversity.
Again, this is not simple to implement.
Recommender systems often recommend lots of similar items.
Creating recommendation list that are diverse give it
the greatest chance that at least one item will be enjoyed by the user.
What's more, diversifying recommendations
lowers the chance that a user will get bored of the recommendations.